---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

**What type of things are you looking for when you select an open source project to work on?**  
While browsing an open source project, I'd like contributing to it to be relatively straightforward. I don't mind taking the time to use the software and solve more tedious bugs (though a project with plenty of easy bugs to resolve is a bonus), but I would like the actual process of resolving a bug to not be a hassle. Community activity and my previous experience with the project (if any) would also play a role in my decision making.
  
**What are you able to offer to the team that you will be working on for the project (what are your strengths)?**  
My strengths include persistence and willing to test via trial and error. I also do have experience with using some Python libraries (such as django and matplotlib). I also don't mind going through mountains of documentation to find information I need (or realize information is missing).
  
**What are you hoping to learn from working on an open source project?**  
I'm hoping to learn how to collaborate on a larger scale. Usually I work alone or on small group projects, so finally getting to work with others on a much bigger project would be nice. Also I hope to learn more about certain projects under the hood while also being able to contribute back to them.
  
**What are you most worried about when you are thinking about and planning  to work on an open source project?**  
The thing I'm most concerned about how deep I'll have to dive before understanding the project enough to contribute to it. I know many projects have smaller issues that are meant for beginners, but even some of those look fairly intimidating. The hardest part I think is going to be sitting down and actually comitting to one project and learning enough about it to be able to be improve it.
  
**Questions for Aurelia Moser**  
1. What's been your favorite teaching position?  
2. What skills do you think programmers gain from working on large community based open source projects that they wouldn't get in a classroom enviornment?  
3. What's the best piece of advice you have for people looking for their first open source project to contribute to? What should they look out for?  
4. Do you think open source projects and software are going to have an impact on public education? Or are they going to remain foreign to the average person?
  
*No contributions made this week.*
