---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## Open Source
What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? What are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source?  
  
When I hear the term "open source", I think of licensed software with source code that is free to read, modify, and share.  
Some advantages of open source software is that the community of users can act as a co-developers and beta testers. Bugs can be found and fixed collectively rather than independently. Having a whole community of peopple collaborating on a project allows for features to be added as needed and tools to develop to meet changing demands.  
One potential problem with open source is the speed of development. How fast new features get added to a project depends on how many people are contributing to it and how many people are reviewing the changes before adding them. Due to the fact that many people who are invested in open source projects are doing so using their free time, change isn't always guaranteed to occur quickly. Another issue includes the fact that anyone can use the software yet almost no one can be contributing to its evolution and growth. In a hypothetical scenario, it is totally possible to have a very small team of developers on an open source project that is being used by millions. If this occurred, the project is not guaranteed to develop in a way that reflects the needs of the community.  
  
## Projects
List names of four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past; give brief descriptions for each, explain why you use it and what the alternatives might be (note, the projects do not have to be source code based).  
  
**Ubuntu**  
Operating system I regularly use for course work and developing personal projects.  
*Alternatives include Windows.*  
  
**VLC**  
Porable, cross platform media player. I use it regularly for watching movies and listening to music.
*Alternatives include Windows Media Player.*  

**Gimp**  
Graphic editing software I use every now and then while modifying images for game sprites.  
*Alternatives include Photoshop.*  

**Blender**  
3D modeling and rendering software I use for building models for projects and games.  
*Alternatives include Maya.*  

**Apache and MySQL**  
  
## Questions for Tom
Come up with two (or more) questions that you would like to ask Tom Callaway from RedHat when he visits the class next week.  
What are some threats to the future of open source software and how bright does the future of open source software look?  
In your opinion, what is the primary reason open source software isn't popular in the American education system (specifically K-12)?  
  
The easiest way to make your first post is to edit this one. 
Go into /_posts/ and update the 2018-01-28-week01.md file. 
