---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

# Progress Report
For the group project, we managed to submit a pull request and it was merged. We spent a good amount of time this week trying to track down another issue to work on so we could get everyone on the team to have at least one commit. We wanted to update the documentation for the pull request we submitted after it was merged, but someone already took care of that. We managed to find another small issue, but it ended up not being claimable because it was supposed to be left alone for a later time I believe. Also unit tests/additional tests were not necessary for the new password list, so the idea of updating the test files was also hopeless. Django has had a shortage of brand new issues lately, and we couldn't find any documentation that really needed updating either. Since everything seems to be going a bit slowly I personally didn't get to do much besides browsing potential issues and trying to assess which ones we might be able to manage.

# Django's License
Django is under a BSD liscence. The BSD liscense allows for Django to be modified, distributed, placed under warranty, and used commercially. Django's trademark can not be used and the contributors and organization behind Django can not be held liable. The license and copyright must be included. More specifically, redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, the list of conditions in the license, and the disclaimer. The same applies to the binaries, but they must also include information/documentation from other material included as well. Also Django and its contributors may not be used to endorse or promote any derived software without permission.

# Contributions This Week
No contributions this week. I'm currently looking at ways to update the pyautogui documentation. The repository seems very undermantained...
