---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

# Opinions on Google's Approach to Open Source
I really like Google's approach to open source software. The idea of making everything as open as possible internally and having internal teams communicating with external contributors so they have a (somewhat vague) idea of what Google is and isn't working on is a pretty good way of handling things. At times it can be a bit frustrating for external contributors, but overall Google does sometime listen to what the community wants (and at other times adds the features they need). Also open sourcing their software helped them survive a split. Their principle that open source makes the world better, and also makes Google better, which in a way makes the world better, is a very healthy attitude to have towards open source software, especially for a non-profit organization. Also Summer of Code is a great idea because it exposes students to open source projects, and helps projects by providing them with some younger developers (who can both bring ideas and assistance with innovation, while simultaneously gaining valuable experience).

# Progress Report
For the group project, we've made some progress by finding issues to work on. We just started looking beyond the easy tickets and found some doable tickets that weren't marked. The issue we're currently working on requires us to replace the list of common passwords with a newer list, since it hasn't been updated in a few years. So far, it seems that swapping the file should be very straightforward, but issues we may encounter might include remapping it to the new file inside the password validator class and rewriting unit tests for the new password list. Also if we want to force users with a current password that falls under the "too common" list to update their passwords, we'd have to go through additional steps/research. My personal goal is to get my Linux installation working so I can test on that as well as my implementing the change on my Windows version.

# Contributions This Week
No contributions this week. Though I did find a python module called pyautogui that's really interesting and I might try to contribute to that. I've been looking into the source code for the past week and it seems to lack examples and some tests.
