---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# NYC Open Data Week Events

## NYC Open Data Week at NYU
Panel followed by Q+A and various projects. My favrorite discussions during the panel part of the event included the brief chat about the Freedom of Information Laws, ethics of open data, and what happens when incorrect prices for hip surgeries are released. The discussion on opening up unverified sets of data was interesting because it was not something I had previously considered. Data collection is a complicated process and between the raw data and the published data, the data itself goes through dozens of filters and is modified for various factos (filtering out noise and such). Data however isn't always checked before being opened up, and the situations where open source data is critical and used as if it were correct raised some interesting questions. For example, who would be held accountable if open source data was used in a life or death situtation and ended up containing errors?  
  
The food was great :)! The Student project showcase was also super interesting. Out of the one's I got to check out, I found the one about using machine learning and predictive modeling to potentially predict and prevent deaths relating to heroin fascinating.

## Data Through Design: Art Exhibit
The art exhibit was a bit underwhelming, for some reason I was expecting more projects. The stuff displayed was pretty cool though. The displays that interested me the most included the haiku generator, "The Time of Sexual Trauma", "Slow Down", and "Manhattan Tree Topography". The tree topography one was very interesting because it gave me a larger appreciation regarding the amount of effort goes into collecting data in NYC. The one regarding traffic accidents was also interesting because it showed that the amount of accidents remained roughly consistent over the years, there were no drastic changes that causes more accidents to happen in one area or in one year. The exhibit regarding sexual violence in NYC was somewhat broken when we got there, but the information it did display was interesting. It also did briefly mention that the data used was only the data that was reported, and that the creators estimated that only 40% of sexual violence cases were reported to the authorities.  
  
## End of Open Data Week Celebration!
I really wish I could say more for this besides free food and socializing. It was just free food and socializing (and a really cute dog roaming around).

## Contributions This Week**  
No contributions this week.
