---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

# Humanitarian Projects
I am not familiar with many humanitarian open source projects unfortunately. I've spent some time looking into OpenMRS and OpenStreetMap, which are both humanitarian (or can be used for humanitarian purposes) open source projects. The projects I am familiar with (django, numpy, scipy, other python packages, Express.js), wouldn't classify as humanitarian, but they could help with/be used as parts of humanitarian projects.

# Progress Report
We made some decent progress I think for our first meeting. We all (or most of us) got the development enviornment set up for django. We also looked through a handful of tickets that had been resolved for django. We looked at some of the easy ones that had been resolved and kept an eye on the things we probably could have solved and the things we couldn't have solved. We used this as a guideline to highlight our strengths and weaknesses along with how much of django we understood. We also did some analysis on the frequency of the issues. On average it seems that an easy ticket shows up every few days, and we'd probably be able to handle like 1 out of 4 or 5 easy tickets, so we'd probably have to monitor the new easy tickets closely and ideally within 2-3 weeks we would have a ticket we could figure out. We also contemplated picking an easier project.

# Next Steps
The next goal for me is to locate some easy tickets that have been resolved that also provide insight on the process. We know a bit about how tickets are resolved in django, but we were overall confused about the process from start to end. So my goal is to find some information and some tickets that portray what the process would ideally look like, from finding a ticket to work on to submitting the pull request. Also a side goal is to locate some other projects that have plenty of easy bugs that need fixing, just in case django doesn't work out.

# Contributions This Week
No contributions this week.
