---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

# Final Evaluation
## What I learned
Overall, I really enjoyed this class. It wasn't really a challenging course, but it was a nice, unique approach to learning new ideas and getting some practice with programming outside a classroom scope. It was a nice ice breaker to how programmers work and coordinate in large, semi-structured groups. I also learned quite a lot about various open source projects, how to contribtue to them (which had always been an intimidating part for me), and some projects I might continue to work on after this class. It also gave me some insight to how private corporations support open source communities and vice versa.

## What I would have liked to learn
This course covered most of the things I did want to learn. I wish there were a few more readings, or a bit more of a focus on the history of open source and how modern open source projects operate. Having group meetings during lecture times felt like the class didn't really itself cover much, but most of the emphasis was on us finding our place inside an open source community. The class structure overall was fine, but I really would have liked to have done more personal work with open source projects beyond the handful of small contributions we did make. Also evaluating tickets, testing PRs, and monitoring issues as a class to learn more about the lifestyle of tickets in different projects could have been a nice experience.

## Things to add and/or remove
I liked the class itself, but the idea of using lecture time as a space for group meetings felt a bit boring at times. Especially since sometimes nothing new would happen between our outside class group meeting and our in class group meeting. The open source community for most projects seems to operate on varying timescales, so having a fixed weekly meeting felt like it didn't help sometimes. Also for the outside class meetings, fixing a time weekly didn't really help us because sometimes we'd meet but not have much to do. I think instead of having the long 2 hour block meetings, having shorter meetings and being able to do them online instead would have helped add flexibility to the workflow to match the situations as they came up. I'd like to add in more lectures and group exercises to the class, and remove some of the in class group meetings. I'd also propse replacing the 2 hour block meetings with 2 one hour meetings, where perhaps only one of them needs to be in person. Most of our group's work was done outside the meetings I think, where the meetings generally just served to evaluate how much we'd gotten done since the last meeting, organize our plans for next steps, and what we should all be working on until the next meeting. 

## Concluding
I think this class was a great experience. Even though it wasn't as difficult or involved as I would have hoped for it to be, it did grant me a solid foundation for working in open source projects beyond this class and knowing how to evaluate projects and assess issues, two skills I'm certain will be invaluable to me as I continue to program.
