---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


**Explain (in your own words) the difference between software development following the cathedral model and software development following the bazaar model; which of the two environments would you be more comfortable.**  
  
The bazaar model relies on a community of developers and a unique, rapid style of development, while the cathederal model is the idea that great software is often built by a few developers working on it meticulously behind the scenes. The bazaar model allows for all code to be laid out, and relies on the fact that developers who want certain features or the project to grow in certain directions will help it do so using their own time and effort. This model allows for software to adapt and grow according to the needs of the community. The bazaar model relies on rapid and frequent releases, and with the combination of the number of users viewing the code, bugs are caught and fixed as soon as possible. The cathedral model loses out on this benefit by having to undergo the testing phases and attaining a (relatively) bug free status prior to release.  
  
I would be more comfortable within an environment based on the cathedral model. Eric Raymond pointed out that the bazaar model relies on the ego of hackers along with extroverted people with ideas who are capable of convincing others to contribute to their projects. Within the cathedral model, the control doesn't shift as much, many decisions are made collectively by the small group of deveopers. The software built generally does what it was built to do in a nice and structured way. In the bazaar model, the project goes in the direction the community usually wants it to, which can potentially leads to projects going in directions the original developer hadn't anticipated.

**The Cathedral and The Bazaar essay has 19 "lessons"; pick two that you found most interesting, intriguing, telling, or that you simply liked; quote them in your blog and try to explain what they supposed to mean.**  
  
*\# 1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer’s personal itch.*  
I personally liked this one because it is very insightful on the beginning of the process. Many people wait around for brilliant ideas to appear or look for something they can work towards, or a project they can get on board with. Looking for problems that one has and designing solutions if they don't already exist creates a great basis for new projects due to the fact that multiple people are likely to have encountered/be encountering the exact same problem.

*\# 18. To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you.*  
Leading off the previous "lesson", this one explores a similar line of thought. Instead of spending time looking for interesting problems, starting with problems that interest the solver is generally a better approach. Problems often grow and expand, solving one simply creates another. Solving problems that don't interest you will lead to frustration and dead ends, but continiously working on interesting problems will eventually lead to an interesting solution to an interesting problem (from a communal perspective). 

The easiest way to make your second post is to edit this one. 
Go into /_posts/ and update the 2018-02-04-week02.md file. 
